# Bludgeoning of Force Damage

## Head

1. (TODO:1) Your weapon glances off the side of your opponent's head, making a ringing noise and reducing their next attack roll by a penalty of -2.
2. (TODO:2) Your blow glances off your opponent's cheekbone, making them take a penalty of -1 AC for 1 round and giving them a black eye.
3. (TODO:3) Your weapon glances off the bridge of your opponent's nose, making them see bright flashes and their eyes water. All their attack roll and Athletics checks during the next 1d4 turns will take a penalty of -1.
4. (TODO:4) Your weapon smashes into the meat of your opponent's neck, straining the large neck muscles. All their attack roll and Athletics checks during the next 1d4 turns will take a penalty of -2.
5. (TODO:5) Your weapon lands a solid blow on the side of your opponent's head, bursting their eardrum, making a small rivulet of blood run down their neck. They'll be slowed 1 until the end of their next turn and will suffer a penalty of -4 to all hearing-based Perception tests until the eardrum has resealed itself in 1d4 weeks.
6. (TODO:6) Your blow connects to your opponent's head with a sickening thud. Concussed, they falls to the ground, counting as slowed 1 until they can make a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save to regain full speed, starting to roll during their next turn, re-rolling each turn until they succeeds. For the rest of this battle they will be sickened 1 due to dizziness and nausea. They must also make a challenging (+1 to DC) Will save or suffer short-term amnesia, not remembering a thing about the battle or how they ended up in it.
7. (TODO:7) Your weapon fractures your opponent's nose, slowing 2 them as they sees bright flashes and spits blood. On their next turn after that they must pass Fortitude save to recover, re-rolling each turn until they succeeds. There is a 50% chance that the nose will be so smashed it reduces their CHA skills by 1 unless magically healed or set with a successful Medicine check by someone with expert proficiency.
8. (TODO:8) Your blow crashes into your opponent's skull, slowing 2 them. On their next turn after that they must pass a challeging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to recover, rerolling each turn until they succeeds. The blow has fractured their skull, causing a splinter of bone to press into their brain and starting a slow bleeding between the brain and the skull that will keep expanding. They'll suffer a cumulative sickened 1 every two hours, falling into a coma after 8d6 hours. The only effective cure is a procedure called trepanation, which involves removing a piece of the skull by drilling or boring into it, thus relieving the pressure and allowing access to remove the splinter. This requires at least one hour and a challenging (+1 to DC) Medicine check with expert proficiency. If successful, a metal plate of some kind, usually a silver coin that has been hammeredremovenailed directly to the surrounding bone and then covered with a flap of the scalp. If already in a coma, your opponent will then wake up in another 1d4 days. Failure will still relieve the pressure but causes coma to last 1d4 weeks. Regardless of outcome, your opponent will have to pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save immediately after the surgery or contract a serious infection.
9. (TODO:9) Your weapon breaks your opponent's jaw. They counts as slowing 2 until the end of their next turn and suffers a penalty of -4 to their attack rolls and attack rolls for the remainder of the battle due to the pain. The jaw will have to be wired or otherwise tightly shut until knitted together in 2d10 days, forcing your opponent to eat through a straw until then. While they can barely speak, the target can't vocalize above a hoarse whisper, and it must succeed at a DC 10 flat check or lose any action that requires speech. There is also 50% risk that they'll have lost several teeth.
10. (TODO:10) Your weapon crashes into your opponent's larynx at the top of the windpipe, causing a spasmed airway. They gasps for breath, suffering a cumulative sickned 1d4 until they makes a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to immediately get rid of it, rolling at the start of each turn. If sickned reaches 10 they falls unconscious from lack of air. If not making their roll within another Con turns they dies from lack of air. Medecine check from another person can help in addition to Fortitude save.
11. (TODO:11) Your weapon crushed the bony orbit surrounding your opponent's eyeball, causing a blow-out fracture, pushing bone splinters into the sinus and trapping some of the muscles controlling eye movement. They counts as stunned until the end of their next turn. On their next turn after that they must pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to recover, rerolling each turn until they succeeds. Unless magical healing or expert Medicine help is received within 1d6 days the eye will be effectively lost and they must reduce any sight-based Perception test by half.
12. (TODO:12) Your blow tears loose your opponent's jaw. They must make an immediate challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save or fall unconscious. If successful, they can only stumble around and try to hold their dangling jaw in place, counting as slowed 2 for the duration of the battle without ability to speak. If they survives, either a challenging (+1 to DC) Medicine check with expert proficiency or magical healing is needed reattach the jaw. It must be done within 1d4 days, otherwise neremovend being forced to feed only on liquids and losing all speech.
13. (TODO:13) Your weapon smashes into the junction between head and neck, breaking your opponent's spine. They falls unconscious and will die within 1d4 hours from loss of air due to damage to the breathing centre in the upper part of the spinal cord. Magical healing or expert Medicine help can save their life but will be hard (+2 to DC) and will still leave them paralysed from the neck down and gains them the horrible experience of being paralysed and helpless while slowly suffocating to death.
14. (TODO:14) Your weapon hits your opponent in the forehead and shatters their skull like an eggshell. They immediately falls to the ground and spends the remainder of their life (1d6 rounds) twitching and jerking.
15. (TODO:15) Your weapon smashes into your opponent's head and bursts it like a melon, spattering you with blood and grey matter. Their death is immediate.
