# Claws

## Head

1. Spraying spittle all over their face, you nick your opponent's ear, causing them to flinch and suffer penalty -1 to their attack roll on their next turn as they clap one hand to their stinging ear.
1. You lunge at your opponent's face, making them stagger backward, unable to take any attack actions on their first action next turn.
1. You rake your opponent's face, just missing their eyes, causing a penalty of -4 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn. The scars will be thin and straight enough not to reduce their charisma by any appreciable margin.
1. Savagely, you tear open your opponent's chin to the bone, splitting their lower lip. Blood splashes down their chest, and they count slowed 1 until the end of their next turn. In addition, they must pass a Will save for each hand or clap it to their injured face, dropping anything held in that hand. The scar will be impressive, slightly obstructing their ability to speak.
1. Growling deeply within your chest, you tear away one of your opponent's ears and slash their scalp, causing blood to run down their face. The flow of blood into their eyes will cause a dazzled condition until they spend an action to wipe it away. Each turn after that they must attempt a DC 6 flat check or more blood will flow down, repeating the condition, possibly occurring again and again until somebody pass very easy (-5 to DC) Administer First Aid check to bandage the wound.
1. Aiming to bite your opponent's face off, you only manage to slam into them, smashing their nose and knocking them to the ground, making them slowed 1. On their next turn they can start trying to pass a routine (-1 to DC) Fortitude save to recover.
1. You try to tear your opponent's throat out, being only partly successful, causing heavy bleeding. Until they have two successful Administer First Aid Medicine checks performed on them, they must, after a number of turns equal to their Constitutions modifier (minimum 1), start passing a routine (-1 to DC) Fortitude save each turn, falling stunned from loss of blood if they fail.
1. As they attempt to dodge your slavering attention, your opponent manages to save most of their face but doesn't manage to entirely get their nose out of the way, and it sliced off. They count as slowed 2 until the end of their next turn. A prosthetic nose can be made.
1. Ravening, you maul your opponent's cheek, exposing bone and teeth and cracking their jaw. They are slowed 2 by the blow for 1d4 turns and must drop anything held in at least one hand to hold their jaw and flapping cheek in place, requiring a successful very hard (+5 to DC) Will save to let go. This damage possibly results in a big hole where your cheek used to be.
1. You savage your opponent's face, making a deep furrow down one side and across the eye, blinding them on that side. They count as stunned until the end of their next turn and must then pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Will save to recover. Furthermore, they'll become sickened 2 for the rest of the battle. The loss of the eye can reduce sight-based Perception checks.
1. Pouncing, you rip into the back of your opponent's neck, tearing muscles and nicking vertebrae. They count as stunned for 1d6 turns and will be sickened 4 for the rest of the battle. Afterward, if they survive, due to the damage to muscles, small nerves and bones in the neck, your opponent will suffer chronic pain, dizziness and headaches, permanent become clumsy 1. Their mood will become foul from the suffering.
1. Cruelly, you tear into your opponent's face, ripping out both of their eyes, permanently blinding them. They'll be quite helpless to resist any further attacks.
1. You tear out your unlucky opponent's throat in a spray of blood. Unless a very hard (+5 to DC) expert Medicine help provided this turn, they will die quickly as their body emptied of all blood.
1. In a stunning display of animalistic brutality, you crunch away a large part of your opponent's head, like a bite taken out of an apple. Depending on the desired shock value, the GM might deem the chunk taken from the face, the top of the head, the neck, or wherever. Regardless, your opponent is very much dead, dropping to the ground and twitching a round before finally and inevitably expiring.
1. Your bestial strength astonishes everyone nearby as you take off your opponent's entire head from their shoulders. If large enough, and using your teeth for the attack, you might take the option of swallowing the head or simply spit it out, slightly chewed.

## Body

1. Growling and gnashing, you rake your opponent's side, causing a penalty of -2 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
1. Teeth bared, you slash at your opponent's belly, forcing them to retreat, unable to take any attack actions on their first action next turn.
1. In rage, you savage your opponent's chest, causing several long parallel gashes and a penalty of -4 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
1. Hurling yourself at your opponent, you knock them off their feet, felling them to the ground.
1. Spittle flying, you rake your opponent, slashing their hip. They'll suffer a penalty of -2 to their attack rolls and making them flat-footed for the rest of the battle as they are forced to guard their injured side.
1. Emitting deep growls, you clamp onto their shoulder, dragging them to the ground and making them slowed 1 until the end of their next turn. After the battle, they must pass a regular Fortitude save or suffer infection in the injured shoulder, making the arm useless for 1d6 days as it swells up with pus. They must then make a second test to recover fully, failure meaning that the infection has poisoned the arm, requiring its amputation if they want to survive.
1. Disregarding any notion of fair play, you lash out at your opponent's groin, making them slowed 2 for 1d6 turns. They must also pass a regular Fortitude save or become permanently sterile.
1. In a clear demonstration of why no one should tangle with someone as well-equipped in the ivory-department as you, you tear open your opponent's belly, causing a loop of intestine to slide out of the wound. Your opponent's is slowed 2 for 1d4 turns and become sickened 4 until the end of the battle, also having to use one arm to press against the wound, stopping more of their precious insides from falling out. In addition, they must make a very hard (+5 to DC) Fortitude save or die from infection in 1d6 days (becoming delirious and helpless within one day). Curing DC is also very hard as this involves a very risky surgical procedure, digging deep into the abdomen, stitching up the holes and cleaning out any gall or other foul substances visible.
1. Roaring, you tear long strips of flesh from your opponent's back, exposing gleaming ribs. They are knocked to the ground and slowed 2 for 1d6 turns, gasping for air from the impact. They become sickened 4 for the rest of the battle due to broken ribs and a fractured vertebra. After the battle they'll suffer a permanent penalty of -2 to all attack rolls and AC, due to chronic back pain unless successful surgical procedure provided.
1. In an attack of mindless fury, you splinter ribs and tear flesh. Shards of bone puncture your opponent's lung, causing a cumulative sickened 1 condition each turn. They'll fall stunned after 2d4 turns and will die within another 1d4 hours unless a successful expert Medicine check is provided.
1. Your small mind filling with images of gore and frenzied feeding, you rip flesh from your opponent's side and hip, fracturing their pelvis. They are knocked to the ground, stunned for 1d6 turns, unable to get up and become sickened 4 for the rest of the battle, due to intense pain. Afterward, they'll have their movement suffer a penalty of -5 feet, unless a successful surgical procedure provided, due to nerve damage and a poorly healed pelvis.
1. Shedding any last remnants of animal or human decency, you dig into your opponent's belly, badly lacerating both the small and large intestine, spilling fecal matter into the abdominal cavity. They'll have to make an immediate challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save or fall stunned. If successful they'll still be sickened 4 due to pain and shock for the duration of the combat. Such a wound inevitably causes a severe infection and hardly any amount of mundane healing can repair such damage, the victim usually dying within 1d4 days. Should an attempt at Medicine with expert proficiency be made it will count as very hard (+5 to DC) and even if the surgeon is successful,  your opponent must still pass a very hard (+5 to DC) Fortitude save or succumb to infection anyway. Any successful magical healing attempt will take care of the infection as well but will also be counted as hard (+2 to DC).
1. In an outburst of unbridled bloodlust, you slash open your opponent's back, severing their spine. They'll count as stunned for the rest of the battle and will be permanently paralyzed from the waist down unless successful surgical procedure provided with master proficiency and incredibly hard (+10 to DC) Medicine check.
1. Ferociously, you tear open your opponent's belly, dragging their guts from their abdominal cavity and spilling them onto the ground. They expire helplessly in 1d4 turns.
1. In a disturbing display of unbridled savagery and complete contempt for civilized behavior, you rip open your opponent's chest, tearing apart their lungs and heart, killing them instantly.

## Arms

1. Growling in a most beastly fashion, you lash out and rake the opponent's hand, causing a penalty of -2 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
1. Howling, you manage to put several long, parallel, shallow cuts into your opponent's arm, causing a penalty of -3 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
1. You bloodthirstily savage your opponent's wrist, making them drop whatever they are holding in that hand.
1. Drooling with lust for slaughter, you rip into your opponent's forearm, tearing muscle and tendons. Anything held in that hand dropped, and any attacks made with that hand will suffer a penalty of -2, due to difficulties closing the hand properly. The effect lasts until wounded condition is removed.
1. Cruelly, you tear a chunk from your opponent's biceps muscle, slowing 1 them until the end of their next turn and causing a penalty of -4 to their attacks until wounded condition removed.
1. Like the beast you are, you savage your opponent's arm, opening a great gash that spurts blood all over you. The arm is useless for the rest of the battle and the heavy bleeding will cause a cumulative sickened 1 each turn until it is either bandaged with Administer First Aid (hard check if done by themselves with only one hand and teeth), or the sickened has reached 4, whereupon the bleeding will stop spontaneously, whichever comes first.
1. With primal joy, you feel bone crunch as your opponent's hand mangled and torn open. It is useless until wounded condition removed. Furthermore, they'll have to pass a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save to avoid infection in the wrist, due to whatever germs your filth-encrusted natural weapons steeped in. If failed, the hand is useless and have to be amputated within 1d6 days unless disease cured.
1. Roaring for blood, you latch on to your opponent's shoulder, tearing muscles and ligaments. The arm will be useless until their until wounded condition removed. In addition, they'll become sickened 4 for the rest of the battle, due to the pain from having their arm dislocated.
1. Howling with bloodlust, you yank your opponent from their feet, breaking their arm at the elbow. The arm is useless until the fracture has healed in one month, faster with Medicine checks. In addition, unless it is well set with a successful regular Medicine check (check can be remade, but it resets healing period), the arm will heal crookedly, permanently reducing attack rolls by -2 for any attacks made by that arm.
1. In an unparalleled display of savagery, you remove most of the fingers from your opponent's hand. They can no longer hold a weapon and any tests requiring fine manipulation made using that arm will count as very hard (+5 to DC). A successful surgical procedure restores fingers that were found after the battle.
1. In a show of unbridled bloodlust, you tear a large part of your opponent's muscles from their upper arm, leaving the torn tissue dangling by a few bloody threads. They count as stunned for 1d6 turns and the heavy bleeding will cause a cumulative sickened 1 each turn until it is either bandaged with Administer First Aid (hard check if done by themselves with only one hand and teeth), or the sickened has reached 4, whereupon the bleeding will stop spontaneously, whichever comes first. Loss of muscle tissue will also result in a permanent penalty of -2 to attack rolls made with that arm, unless a successful surgical procedure provided. In addition, they'll have to pass a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save to avoid infection in the wrist, due to whatever germs your filth-encrusted natural weapons steeped in. If failed, the hand is useless and have to be amputated within 1d6 days unless disease cured.
1. With bestial ferocity, you crunch into your opponent's upper arm, breaking the bone into little fragments. They must pass a hard (+2 to DC) Will save or fall stunned, otherwise counting as slowed 2 for 1d6 turns. The arm is useless and will require amputation.
1. Furiously tearing into your opponent, your rip their arm off at the elbow. The bleeding causes a cumulative sickened 2 each turn, resulting in stunned condition in 2d4 turns. The arm is, of course, permanently lost. If left untended, loss of blood will cause their death within another 2d6 turns. Applying a tourniquet takes two full turns, plus a hard (+2 to DC) Reflex save if they try performing it on themselves with only the other arm and their teeth.
1. Fell and feral, you triumphantly tear your opponent's arm from its socket in a spray of blood. They fall stunned from shock and will inevitably die from loss of blood in 1d4 turns.
1. Ravening, your rip your opponent's entire shoulder from their body, the shoulder-blade and parts of several ribs coming out as well, exposing the lung in an explosion of gore. Your opponent is dead before you have finished throwing them through the air 2d6 feet in an arc of spurting blood.

## Legs

1. Thirsting for your opponent's blood, you rake the outside of their thigh, shredding their pants if they wears any, causing a penalty of -1 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
1. Fully intending to take their leg off, you just miss your opponent's femoral artery, instead slamming into their hip, causing them to lose their balance, stagger and suffer a penalty of -2 to their attack rolls and making them flat-footed until the end of their next turn.
1. With the scent of blood in your nostrils, you slam your opponent's leg to one side, knocking them to the ground.
1. Savagely, you tear a gaping wound in your opponent's thigh. Their movement is halved and they are flat-footed until the end of the battle.
1. You roar in triumph as you leave your opponent with several long gashes along their hip, causing a penalty of -2 to any attack rolls and they are flat-footed for the rest of the battle, as they has to guard their injured side.
1. Snorting with bloodlust, you savage your opponent's foot, tearing off several toes. They counts as slowed 1 until the end of their next turn and must also immediately pass a hard (+2 to DC) Reflex save to avoid falling. There is 50% risk that the great toe is among your victims, which will result in a penalty of -1 to AC, until they take long-term rest.
1. A hideous tearing sound is heard as you sever the hamstring muscles at the back of your opponent's leg.They falls to the ground and become flat-footed. This penalty remains permanently unless someone passes a challenging (+1 to DC) Medicine check with expert proficiency before the target has healed themselves in 1d6 days to remove of the tendons and muscles have shrivelled and contracted so much that successful surgery or healing is impossible.
1. Being the monster that you are, you feel no compunction against going for your opponent's kneecap, tearing it out in a spray of blood. They falls to the ground with a hideous scream, evoking not the slightest hint of sympathy from you, and must pass a very hard (+5 to DC) Will save or spend the next 1d6 turns grasping at their knee in agony, becoming slowed 2. Passing this check reduces that time to 1d4. For the duration of the battle they will become sickened 2 due to severe pain. In addition without expert Medicine help and they will also suffer a permanent penalty of 5 feet to their movement from now on.
1. Your predatory instincts celebrate new triumphs as you savage the back of your opponent's knee, tearing out the large tendons and ripping an artery. They falls to the ground, stunned until the end of their next turn and become sickened 3 from the intense pain. There is 10% risk each turn that they will fall unconscious from loss of blood. In addition, if they survives the battle, their movement will  be reduced by 10 feet. Only master surgeon can restore the kneecap's function.
1. Defying all gentlemanly behaviour and obeying only your bloodlust, you slash the inside of your opponent's thigh, severing a large vein. There is a 50% chance you'll also permanently make them sterile, in which case they'll count as stunned for 1d4 turns, contemplating a life of celibacy. There is a 20% risk each turn that they will fall unconscious from loss of blood, and until they does they are sickened 4 for the rest of the battle, due to pain and bleeding.
1. In a display of animal savagery, you strip the flesh from your opponent's outer thigh, resulting in a huge gaping wound. They'll be stunned for 1d4 turns and become sickened 4 until the end of the battle. In addition the leg will be useless until their wounded condition is removed. Their movement will then be permanently reduced by 5 feet due to stiffness and loss of muscle tissue. There is also a risk of infection in the gaping wound, requiring them to pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save. Failure means a bad infection spreading through the leg after 1d4 days, requiring amputation.
1. Your beastly attack tears off your opponent's foot at the wrist, taking a large piece of the muscular part of the calf with it. They falls to the ground and is stunned for 1d6 turns. There is a 20% risk each turn that they'll fall unconscious from loss of blood, unless the stump is tightly bandaged, requiring two successful Administer First Aid Medicine checks. Otherwise, there is also a 10% risk they'll die each turn once unconscious. If they survives, they'll need crutches or a prosthetic foot, reducing movement to 10 feet and making them flat-footed.
1. A credit to monsters everywhere, you rip your opponent's leg off at the knee, causing them to fall to the ground, stunned, and die from loss of blood in 1d6 turns unless a hard (+2 to DC) Medicine check stops the bleeding. If they survives, they'll need crutches or a prosthetic foot, reducing movement to 10 feet and making them flat-footed.
1. Always hungry for gore, you produce plenty of it, ripping out your opponent's femoral artery. They falls helpless to the ground, blood pumping out, and expires in a spreading pool of blood within 1d4 turns.
1. Your savagery knows no limits as you tear your opponent's entire leg from its socket. Death is mercifully quick, your opponent dying within two turns from loss of blood and sheer shock at your ferocious strength.
