# Mental damage

1. A sharp pain pierces the target's head, making a ringing noise and reducing their next attack by a penalty of -2.
2. Sharp pain radiates to the target's eye. They'll suffer a penalty of -2 to their attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
3. Pain pulsates in the target's head, making them see bright flashes and their eyes water. All their attack rolls and Athletics checks during the next 1d4 turns will suffer a penalty of -1.
4. Your target can swear they heard the crackling of their skull and spine bones.  All their attack rolls and Athletics checks during the next 1d4 turns will suffer a penalty of -2.
5. Your target cries out in pain as a small trickle of blood runs down their neck. Their eardrum busted making them slowed 1 until the end of their next turn, and they will suffer a penalty of -4 to all hearing-based Perception checks until the eardrum has resealed itself in 1d4 weeks. A successful Medicine check with expert proficiency reduce heal time to 1d4 days.
6. A dull headache makes your opponent fall to the ground, counting as slowed 1 until they can make a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save to regain full capacity, starting to roll during their next turn, re-rolling each turn until they succeed. For the rest of this battle they will be sickened 1 due to dizziness and nausea. They must also make a challenging (+1 to DC) test or suffer short-term amnesia, not remembering a thing about the battle or how they ended up in it.
7. The pain intensifies in your opponent's head, making them slowed 2 as they see bright flashes and spits blood. On their next turn after that they must pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to recover, re-rolling each turn until they succeed.
8. A terrible pain pierces the opponent's head, making them slowed 2 until the end of their next turn. On their next turn after that they must pass a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save to recover, rerolling each turn until they succeed. The pain was caused by brain damage and a slow bleeding starting between the brain and the skull that will keep expanding, eventually killing them unless pressure is relieved. They'll cumulatively become sickened 1 every two hours, falling into a coma when it becomes sickened 5, dying within another 1d4 days. The only effective cure is a procedure called trepanation, which involves removing a piece of the skull by drilling or boring into it, thus relieving the pressure and allowing access to remove the splinter. This requires at least one hour and a challenging (+1 to DC) Medicine check with expert proficiency. If successful, a metal plate of some kind, usually a silver coin that has been hammered directly to the surrounding bone and then covered with a flap of the scalp. If already in a coma, your opponent will then wake up in another 1d4 days, otherwise getting rid of sickened at a rate of 1 per day. Failure will still relieve the pressure but causes brain damage, reducing attack rolls and skill checks by -1 permanently. Regardless of outcome, your opponent will have to pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save immediately after the surgery or contract a serious infection, killing them within 1d6 days unless a cure is performed.
9. Your target cries out in pain and immediately falls silent looking around in confusion. They must pass a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save or be sickened 2 for 2d4 turns, due to pain and dizziness. After the battle, brain damage results in serious risk of infection. They'll have to pass a regular Fortitude save or suffer an infection that will leave them helpless and delirious for 1d6 days, whereupon they'll have to make another test to either recover or die unless saved by a successful cure disease.
10. Pain cramps hold down your opponent's larynx at the top of the windpipe, causing a spasmed airway. They gasp for breath, suffering a cumulative sickened 1 condition each turn until they make a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to immediately get rid of sickened, rolling at the start of each turn. If they become sickened 5 falls unconscious from lack of air. If not making their roll within another 1d6 turns they die from lack of air. A successful Medicine check with expert proficiency ends this condition.
11. The sharp pain causes clouding in your opponent's eye. Their eye is slowly reddening with blood. They count as stunned until the end of their next turn. On their next turn after that they must pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save to recover, rerolling each turn until they succeed. Unless healing is received within 1d6 days the eye will be effectively lost.
12. A piece of the target's brain melts making the target suffer short-time seizure. Your target is knocked prone and must pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save or be stunned. After the battle they must make a hard (+2 to DC) Fortitude save or suffer an acute inflammation of the brain, killing them in 1d4 days unless saved by a successful cure disease.
13. Extreme pain causing bleeding inside target's brain. They fall immediately tearing their face before becoming stunned and remain in a coma for 1d6 days. Afterward they must pass a challenging (+1 to DC) Fortitude save or die. Survival will mean the permanent brain-damage, and they will suffer a penalty of -1 to all skill checks for the rest of their life due to brain damage unless it's recovered with powerful restoration or regeneration magic.
14. The pain engulfs your target's head, boiling their brain within their skull. Screams are slowly calms as the target is inevitably dead within one turn.
15. The whole brain of your target liquifies. They are dead almost before hitting the ground, and most definitely when they do, as most of their brain sloshed out of their brainpan through nose and ears.
